# FlightModel
Private flight count normalization, predicting, and clustering
Demand forecasting is essential for air travel providers to effectively allocate resources to address consumer needs. In particular, the luxury private aviation consumer base generates challenging needs, such as short notice before requesting flights. These challenges can be addressed by analyzing previous flight data. Previous research I have done with this dataset normalized the flight data to remove the effects of timing, seasonality, and location specific demand factors. This is useful in determining the effects of demand driving events on travel, which can be mapped to predict arrivals at other airports. From regression using OLS and Panel, a model was specified that showcased that the normalization removed the factors previously listed. I had not yet controlled for the effect distance travelled has on the arrival count distribution leading up to an event.
This code explores the effect of distance travelled to airport. Using Pandas and SQL, this code was able to find the composition of departure locations that landed at an airport on its busiest day, measured in arrival counts. Average distance travelled to the target airport on its busiest day is recorded. This is then visualized.
The methodology is then looped across all airports to create a sparse binary NxN nonsymmetric matrix of connections. This matrix shows if there was a flight that arrived at the row airport from the column airport on the row airports busiest day. This is then utilized for similarity search and clustering to reveal which airports had a similar composition in their biggest days departure locations.
